


        Logforw utility

This is a readme file describing the log forward utility.


    Summary

This directory contains files for the log forward
utility. The program starts up and runs as a daemon in
the background. It accepts a patterns and a list of files
and directories. The pattern will be used to match against
the actual file names. Patterns are specified as wildcard
expressions. The default pattern is '*', that is to match
all files. It is possible to specify patterns repeatedly and
always the last one is effective. Note that the file names would
be always absolute paths, preceded by the current working directory
before the match.

If a directory is specified instead of a file, that directory
and all subdirectories will be scanned for files.

The program builds the list of files as specified above and then
periodically checks if their actual size or modification date
changed. (The current actual size of the file is checked by a
seek to the end of the file instead of just checking the file
header.)

If it did, forwards the differences line by line from
the last remembered position up to the end of the file.

If the amount of data added to a file during a scan is suspiciously
large only the first 132 characters will be forwarded, to avoid
jamming the syslog server. In this case the first line will be printed
masking out the non-printable characters since this cases tend to
be binary files.

If a file gets deleted in a directory it is removed from the list
and newly created files are dynamically added.

All messages are sent to the local syslog daemon which will process
and forward them if configured to do so.


    Files

Files in this directory are:
Makefile            make file for the compilation
README              this file
logforw-errpt       start up daemons enabling forwarding errpt messages
logforw-errpt.1     manual page for logforw-errpt
logforw-start       script to start the daemon
logforw-start.1     manual page for the startup script
logforw-status      scripint to print status for the log forward daemon
logforw-status.1    manual page for the log forward status script
logforw-stop        shutdown script for the log forward daemon
logforw-stop.1      manual page for the shutdown script
logforw.1           manual pages for the log forward daemon
logforw.c           source program


    Installation

The directory contains the source file and a make file.
You will need an ANSI C compiler to compile. The calls
comfirm to POSIX 1.

In the current directory issue:
  make clean
  make
which should result in the logforw executable. The executable
then can be copied to the destination directory:
  make install
which will put the executable under /usr/local/bin as default.

The make file responds to the following targets:
all             which is the default, to compile the utility
clean           remove binary files
distclean       cleanup before making distribution
install         copy binaries and manual pages to destination
uninstall       remove installed files from the system
dist            will create an installation tarball
start           start daemons
status          print status of the running daemons
stop            stop running daemons
test            will run a simple test


    Uninstall

To uninstall the utility stop the running daemons using logforw-shutdown.
Then issue
  make uninstall
to remove all installed files.


    Usage

The usual -h, -help, --help will give a short help.

There are manual pages, logforw.1 should be under the
/usr/local/man/man1 directory. It could be also viewed
as nroff -man logforw.1 in the current directory.

To watch files ending with .log under /var/app/logs directory
do:
    logforw -f app -p '.*\.log$' /var/app/logs
which will use facility name 'app' in the syslog messages.

Watch all files in the current directory:
    logforw '.*' .


